### Treść
(FIB)
Czy wysokość drzew w kopcu Fibonacciego o n wierzchołkach da się ograniczyć przez $\log ^2 n$?

------
<details><summary>Rozwiązanie</summary>
<p>

nie, jest O(n) max 

The height of n-node Binomial Heap is always O(log n). Show that this is not the case
for Fibonacci Heaps by exhibiting, for any positive integer n a sequence of Fibonacci-heap
operations that creates a Fibonacci heap consisting of just one tree that is a linear chain of
n nodes.

Solution
Starting from an empty Fibonacci heap F , the basic idea of the algorithm is to create,
recursively, a Fibonacci heap that is a linear chain of n − 1 nodes and then add one more
node to the chain.
More precisely, we start creating a Fibonacci Heap of height 1, having root key m. Then
we add the elements m − 1 (a value less than the current minimum), m + 1 (a value larger
than the current minimum) and m − 2 (an even smaller element that has to be deleted to
force the consolidation) and delete m − 2. The consequent consolidate step will generate
the required Fibonacci Heap. In the following we supposed n > 2 (the case n ≤ 2 is trivial).
Pseudocode
```
Linear-heap(F ,n, m)
    Linear-heap(F ,n-1, m+1)
    Insert(F ,min(F )+1)
    Insert(F ,min(F )-1)
    Insert(F ,min(F )-2)
    Deletemin(F )
    x=min(F ).secondchild
    Decreasekey(x,min(F )-2)
    Deletemin(F )
    return
```
Correctness
The proof is by induction. The thesis is clearly correct for n = 1. Assume that the statement
is true for n = k. For n = k + 1 the algorithm first creates a linear chain of k nodes (by our
inductive hypotesis we know that our algorithm can create such a tree), then it adds two
new elements: x that is less than the minimum, and w that is greater than the minimum.
Finally it adds an element m that is guaranteed to be smaller than the minimum. When
m is removed there remain the chain of k nodes x and w. Note that x and w have both
degree 0, so they are consolidated. We obtain a chain with two elements where x is the root,
having degree 1. Thus the chain of height two and the chain of height k are consolidated.
In this way, deleting w we obtain the required chain.


źródło: http://theory.stanford.edu/~trevisan/w4231/fall99/handouts/sol3.pdf
